docs/development-tips.md, before:

## Development tips

### TIP: Developing on nested satellite apps
Some projects can sit inside cfgov-refresh, but manage their own asset
dependencies. These projects have their own package.json and base templates.

The structure looks like this:

#### npm modules
- App's own dependency list is in
  `cfgov/unprocessed/apps/[project namespace]/package.json`
- App's `node_modules` path is listed in the Travis config
  https://github.com/cfpb/cfgov-refresh/blob/master/.travis.yml#L10
  so that their dependencies will be available when Travis runs.

#### Webpack
- Apps may include their own webpack-config.js configuration that adjusts how
  their app-specific assets should be built. This configuration appears in
  `cfgov/unprocessed/apps/[project namespace]/webpack-config.js`

#### Browserlist
- Apps may include a
  [browserlist config](https://github.com/browserslist/browserslist#config-file)
  file, which is automatically picked up by `@babel/preset-env` inside the
  webpack config, if no `browsers` option is supplied.

#### Templates
- Apps use a jinja template that extends the `base.html`
  template used by the rest of the site.
  This template would reside in `cfgov/jinja2/v1/[project namespace]/index.html`
  or similar (for example, [owning-a-home](https://github.com/cfpb/cfgov-refresh/blob/master/cfgov/jinja2/v1/owning-a-home/explore-rates/index.html)).

!!! note
    A template may support a non-standard browser, like an older IE version,
    by including the required dependencies, polyfills, etc. in its
    template's `{% block css %}` or `{% block javascript scoped %}` blocks.


### TIP: Loading satellite apps
Some projects fit within the cfgov-refresh architecture,
but are not fully incorporated into the project.
These are known as "satellite apps."

Satellite apps are listed in the
[optional-public.txt](https://github.com/cfpb/cfgov-refresh/blob/master/requirements/optional-public.txt)
requirements file.

In addition to the aforementioned list,
[HMDA Explorer](https://github.com/cfpb/hmda-explorer) and
[Rural or Underserved](https://github.com/cfpb/rural-or-underserved-test),
have their own installation requirements.

If using Docker, follow
[these guidelines](https://github.com/cfpb/cfgov-refresh/blob/master/docs/usage.md#develop-satellite-apps).

Otherwise, if not using Docker, follow these guidelines:

1. Build the third-party projects per their directions
1. Stop the web server and return to `cfgov-refresh`
1. Run `pip install -e ../<sibling>` to load the projects' dependencies

!!! note
    Do not install the projects directly into the `cfgov-refresh` directory.
    Clone and install the projects as siblings to `cfgov-refresh`,
    so that they share the same parent directory (`~/Projects` or similar).

### TIP: Working with the templates

#### Front-End Template/Asset Locations

**Templates** that are served by the Django server: `cfgov\jinja2\v1`

**Static assets** prior to processing (minifying etc.): `cfgov\unprocessed`.

!!! note
    After running `gulp build` the site's assets are copied over to `cfgov\static_built`,
    ready to be served by Django.

#### Simple static template setup

By default, Django will render pages with accordance to the URL pattern defined
for it. For example, going to `http://localhost:8000/the-bureau/index.html`
(or `http://localhost:8000/the-bureau/`) renders `/the-bureau/index.html` from
the `cfgov` app folder's `jinja2/v1` templates folder as processed
by the [Jinja2](http://jinja.pocoo.org/docs) templating engine.

### TIP: Debugging site performance

When running locally it is possible to enable the
[Django Debug Toolbar](https://django-debug-toolbar.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)
by defining the `ENABLE_DEBUG_TOOLBAR` environment variable:

```sh
$ ENABLE_DEBUG_TOOLBAR=1 ./runserver.sh
```

This tool exposes various useful pieces of information about things like HTTP headers,
Django settings, SQL queries, and template variables. Note that running with the toolbar on
may have an impact on local server performance.

### TIP: Updating the documentation

Our documentation is written as Markdown files and served in GitHub pages
by [mkdocs](https://www.mkdocs.org/user-guide/deploying-your-docs/).

Every time a PR is merged to master, Travis will build and deploy the documentation to https://cfpb.github.io/cfgov-refresh. See [How we use Travis CI](https://github.com/cfpb/cfgov-refresh/blob/master/docs/travis.md) for more info.

To add new pages to the navigation, edit the [mkdocs.yml](https://github.com/cfpb/cfgov-refresh/blob/master/mkdocs.yml) file in the root directory.

Commit message:

add auto-generated streamfield documentation
This commit adds a new page of reference documentation to the site that
describes our use of Wagtail StreamFields. It lists all custom
StreamField blocks that can be added to a page (either directly or as a
child of another block that can) and all pages/models that can include
those blocks.

Due to the large number of blocks and fields, I created a script to
automatically generate the document. I've committed the script as a
Django management command and included documentation on how to run it.

As a follow up to this PR I'd like to add this script to tox (and add a
check for up-to-date documentation to Travis), but am committing this
first to solicit review on the content/format.

See http://localhost:8000/streamfield-blocks/ when running the local
documentation server to review the content.

docs/development-tips.md, after:

## Development tips

### TIP: Developing on nested satellite apps
Some projects can sit inside cfgov-refresh, but manage their own asset
dependencies. These projects have their own package.json and base templates.

The structure looks like this:

#### npm modules
- App's own dependency list is in
  `cfgov/unprocessed/apps/[project namespace]/package.json`
- App's `node_modules` path is listed in the Travis config
  https://github.com/cfpb/cfgov-refresh/blob/master/.travis.yml#L10
  so that their dependencies will be available when Travis runs.

#### Webpack
- Apps may include their own webpack-config.js configuration that adjusts how
  their app-specific assets should be built. This configuration appears in
  `cfgov/unprocessed/apps/[project namespace]/webpack-config.js`

#### Browserlist
- Apps may include a
  [browserlist config](https://github.com/browserslist/browserslist#config-file)
  file, which is automatically picked up by `@babel/preset-env` inside the
  webpack config, if no `browsers` option is supplied.

#### Templates
- Apps use a jinja template that extends the `base.html`
  template used by the rest of the site.
  This template would reside in `cfgov/jinja2/v1/[project namespace]/index.html`
  or similar (for example, [owning-a-home](https://github.com/cfpb/cfgov-refresh/blob/master/cfgov/jinja2/v1/owning-a-home/explore-rates/index.html)).

!!! note
    A template may support a non-standard browser, like an older IE version,
    by including the required dependencies, polyfills, etc. in its
    template's `{% block css %}` or `{% block javascript scoped %}` blocks.


### TIP: Loading satellite apps
Some projects fit within the cfgov-refresh architecture,
but are not fully incorporated into the project.
These are known as "satellite apps."

Satellite apps are listed in the
[optional-public.txt](https://github.com/cfpb/cfgov-refresh/blob/master/requirements/optional-public.txt)
requirements file.

In addition to the aforementioned list,
[HMDA Explorer](https://github.com/cfpb/hmda-explorer) and
[Rural or Underserved](https://github.com/cfpb/rural-or-underserved-test),
have their own installation requirements.

If using Docker, follow
[these guidelines](https://github.com/cfpb/cfgov-refresh/blob/master/docs/usage.md#develop-satellite-apps).

Otherwise, if not using Docker, follow these guidelines:

1. Build the third-party projects per their directions
1. Stop the web server and return to `cfgov-refresh`
1. Run `pip install -e ../<sibling>` to load the projects' dependencies

!!! note
    Do not install the projects directly into the `cfgov-refresh` directory.
    Clone and install the projects as siblings to `cfgov-refresh`,
    so that they share the same parent directory (`~/Projects` or similar).

### TIP: Working with the templates

#### Front-End Template/Asset Locations

**Templates** that are served by the Django server: `cfgov\jinja2\v1`

**Static assets** prior to processing (minifying etc.): `cfgov\unprocessed`.

!!! note
    After running `gulp build` the site's assets are copied over to `cfgov\static_built`,
    ready to be served by Django.

#### Simple static template setup

By default, Django will render pages with accordance to the URL pattern defined
for it. For example, going to `http://localhost:8000/the-bureau/index.html`
(or `http://localhost:8000/the-bureau/`) renders `/the-bureau/index.html` from
the `cfgov` app folder's `jinja2/v1` templates folder as processed
by the [Jinja2](http://jinja.pocoo.org/docs) templating engine.

### TIP: Debugging site performance

When running locally it is possible to enable the
[Django Debug Toolbar](https://django-debug-toolbar.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)
by defining the `ENABLE_DEBUG_TOOLBAR` environment variable:

```sh
$ ENABLE_DEBUG_TOOLBAR=1 ./runserver.sh
```

This tool exposes various useful pieces of information about things like HTTP headers,
Django settings, SQL queries, and template variables. Note that running with the toolbar on
may have an impact on local server performance.

### TIP: Updating this documentation

This documentation is written as Markdown files and served in GitHub pages
by [mkdocs](https://www.mkdocs.org/user-guide/deploying-your-docs/).

Every time a PR is merged to master, Travis will build and deploy the documentation to https://cfpb.github.io/cfgov-refresh. See [How we use Travis CI](https://github.com/cfpb/cfgov-refresh/blob/master/docs/travis.md) for more info.

To add new pages to the navigation, edit the [mkdocs.yml](https://github.com/cfpb/cfgov-refresh/blob/master/mkdocs.yml) file in the root directory.

The source Markdown file used to generate one page of reference documentation
can be generated dynamically from the source code by running the following
Django management command from within a Python environment:

```sh
$ cfgov/manage.py generate_streamfield_docs > docs/streamfield-blocks.md
```

To build HTML in a local `site` directory from the input Markdown files,
run `mkdocs build`. To run an auto-reloading local documentation server at
[http://localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000), run `mkdocs serve`.
