docs/testing-be.md, before:

# Backend testing

## Django and Python unit tests

To run the the full suite of unit tests using Tox, cd to the project root and
then run:

```
tox
```

By default this uses a local SQLite database for tests. To override this, you
can set the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable to a database connection
sring as supported by [dj-database-url](https://github.com/kennethreitz/dj-database-url).

If you haven't changed any installed packages and you don't need to test 
all migrations, you can run a much faster Python code test using:
```
tox -e fast
```

To see Python code coverage information, run
```
./show_coverage.sh
```

## Source code linting

We use the `flake8` and `isort` tools to ensure compliance with 
[PEP8 style guide](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/) and the 
[Django coding style guidelines](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/internals/contributing/writing-code/coding-style/). 
We do make two exceptions to PEP8 that are ignored in our flake8 
configuration:

- `E731`, we allow assignment of lambda expressions
- `W503`, we allow line breaks after binary operators

Both `flake8` and `isort` can be run using the Tox `lint` environment:

```
tox -e lint
```

This will run `isort` in check-only mode and it will print diffs for imports 
that need to be fixed. To automatically fix import sort issues, run:

```
isort --recursive cfgov/
```

From the root of `cfgov-refresh`.

## Python 3 

Both unit tests and linting can be run with Python 3 to aid in our transition. To run with all Django migrations, 

```
tox -e py36
```

or without Django migrations,

```
tox -e fast-py3
```

Existing unit tests that run on code that has not been made compatible with Python 3 may error or fail, but it is possible to run new tests individually with

```
tox -e fast-py3 package.tests.test_my_code
```

To run both `flake8` and `isort` with Python 3, run

```
tox -e lint-py3
```

## GovDelivery

If you write Python code that interacts with the GovDelivery subscription API, you can use the functionality provided in `core.govdelivery.MockGovDelivery` as a mock interface to avoid the use of `patch` in unit tests.

This object behaves similarly to the real `govdelivery.api.GovDelivery` class in that it handles all requests and returns a valid (200) `requests.Response` instance.

Conveniently for unit testing, all calls are stored in a class-level list that can be retrieved at `MockGovDelivery.calls`. This allows for testing of code that interacts with GovDelivery by checking the contents of this list to ensure that the right methods were called.

This pattern is modeled after Django's [`django.core.mail.outbox`](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/2.0/topics/testing/tools/#email-services) which provides similar functionality for testing sending of emails.

The related classes `ExceptionMockGovDelivery` and `ServerErrorMockGovDelivery` can similarly be used in unit tests to test for cases where a call to the GovDelivery API raises an exception and returns an HTTP status code of 500, respectively.

Commit message:

add note about stdout to backend test docs

docs/testing-be.md, after:

# Backend testing

## Django and Python tests

To run the the full suite of Python tests using Tox, cd to the project root and
then run:

```
tox
```

By default this uses a local SQLite database for tests. To override this, you
can set the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable to a database connection
sring as supported by [dj-database-url](https://github.com/kennethreitz/dj-database-url).

If you haven't changed any installed packages and you don't need to test 
all migrations, you can run a much faster Python code test using:
```
tox -e fast
```

To see Python code coverage information, run
```
./show_coverage.sh
```

## Test output

Python tests should avoid writing to stdout as part of their normal execution.
To enforce this convention, the tests can be run using a custom Django test
runner that fails if anything is written to stdout. This test runner is at
`cfgov.test.StdoutCapturingTestRunner` and can be enabled with the `TEST_RUNNER`
environment variable:

```
TEST_RUNNER=cfgov.test.StdoutCapturingTestRunner tox -e fast
```

This test runner is enabled when tests are run automatically on [Travis CI](https://travis-ci.org/),
but is not used by defalt when running tests locally.

## Source code linting

We use the `flake8` and `isort` tools to ensure compliance with 
[PEP8 style guide](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/) and the 
[Django coding style guidelines](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/internals/contributing/writing-code/coding-style/). 
We do make two exceptions to PEP8 that are ignored in our flake8 
configuration:

- `E731`, we allow assignment of lambda expressions
- `W503`, we allow line breaks after binary operators

Both `flake8` and `isort` can be run using the Tox `lint` environment:

```
tox -e lint
```

This will run `isort` in check-only mode and it will print diffs for imports 
that need to be fixed. To automatically fix import sort issues, run:

```
isort --recursive cfgov/
```

From the root of `cfgov-refresh`.

## Python 3 

Both unit tests and linting can be run with Python 3 to aid in our transition. To run with all Django migrations, 

```
tox -e py36
```

or without Django migrations,

```
tox -e fast-py3
```

Existing unit tests that run on code that has not been made compatible with Python 3 may error or fail, but it is possible to run new tests individually with

```
tox -e fast-py3 package.tests.test_my_code
```

To run both `flake8` and `isort` with Python 3, run

```
tox -e lint-py3
```

## GovDelivery

If you write Python code that interacts with the GovDelivery subscription API, you can use the functionality provided in `core.govdelivery.MockGovDelivery` as a mock interface to avoid the use of `patch` in unit tests.

This object behaves similarly to the real `govdelivery.api.GovDelivery` class in that it handles all requests and returns a valid (200) `requests.Response` instance.

Conveniently for unit testing, all calls are stored in a class-level list that can be retrieved at `MockGovDelivery.calls`. This allows for testing of code that interacts with GovDelivery by checking the contents of this list to ensure that the right methods were called.

This pattern is modeled after Django's [`django.core.mail.outbox`](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/2.0/topics/testing/tools/#email-services) which provides similar functionality for testing sending of emails.

The related classes `ExceptionMockGovDelivery` and `ServerErrorMockGovDelivery` can similarly be used in unit tests to test for cases where a call to the GovDelivery API raises an exception and returns an HTTP status code of 500, respectively.
